# Background

Reducing bioburden prior to final sterile filtration is crucial for effective microbial control and risk mitigation in drug manufacturing. The pre-filtration bioburden test is a vital manufacturing control measure and a regulatory requirement. 

The European Medicines Agency (EMA) guidelines sate that the maximum acceptable bioburden before filtration must be specified in the application, typically not more than 10 colony-forming units (CFU) per 100 ml, depending on the volume to be filtered and the filter diameter. If the bioburden exceeds this, pre-filtration through a bacteria-retaining filter is required. The EMA guidelines also allow for a smaller pre-/filtration volume to be tested if justified due to limited availability of the medicinal product in the early stage of drug development.

However, due to the variability and limited sensitivity of microbiological analyses, the precise count may be inaccurate. This variability may lead to either rejecting a batch with an actual bioburden level below the limit or accepting a batch with a bioburden level above the limit. Studies show that a 10 CFU/100 mL limit does not accurately indicate the true bioburden level. US Pharmacopeia (USP) suggests an acceptance criterion of 20 CFU to account for variability. Therefore, the pre-filtration acceptance limit should ensure the bioburden level doesn't exceed the final filter's retention capacity, with a specific probability of assurance.

As [Yang et al.](https://journal.pda.org/content/67/6/601) point out in their paper "A Risk-based Approach to Setting Sterile Filtration Bioburden Limits", modeling shows a 33.4% chance to reject a batch with a true bioburden level of 9 CFU/100 mL and a 50% chance to accept one with 11 CFU/100 mL. This repo explores their approach in Python and provides a method to calculate bioburden limits based on the proposed risk based approach and experimental data.